title: An incorrect modification to Peterson's Algorithm
tags:
  - operating system
  - course
date: 2018-11-05 11:10:00
---
This is a homework question in CSCE 611 with some personal thoughts
<!-- more -->

> Consider Peterson’s solution to the mutual exclusion problem described in Lesson “Software
>
> Solutions to the Critical Section Problem”. Suppose we make a small change to the solution and change the line
>
> `turn = other;`
> 
> to
> 
> `turn = self;`
> 
> This change will cause the program to no longer be correct. Describe what can go wrong if this change is made. That is, describe a sequence of events that leads to a situation where either:
> 
> 1. Both processes can be in their critical section at the same time, or
> 2. A process wants to enter its critical section, but it cannot and loops infinitely waiting to enter.

The Peterson's Algorithm can be written as:

```C
class Lock {
	private int turn;
	private bool busy[2]; /* initialize to false */
	
	public void lock() {
		busy[self] = true; /* ‘self’ is current thread */
 		int other = 1 - self ; /* ‘other’ is other thread */
 		turn = other; /* now change to turn = self */
 		while(busy[other] && turn != self); /* busy loop */
 	}
 	
 	public void unlock() {
 		busy[self] = false; /* mark lock not-busy */
 	}
};
```

## Case 1
Yes! Of course we can easily come up with an example to let both threads.

If we craft a interleaving that, `turn = self` is always executed right before the while loop.

Then the while loop was always skipped. Both thread can enter the *critical section*.

## Case 2
The real question here is, whether we can craft an counter example to reproduce case 2.

The answer should be no.

Now consider why can't we do this from a higher level.

Peterson's Algorithm is a mixture of two erroneous lock methods, i.e. turn-based lock and set-then-check approach.

For turn-based lock, the flaw is: when one thread terminates, it give the turn to the other thread. When the other thread yield the CPU, since the original thread already terminated, the turn remains unchanged, and the suspended thread cannot re-gain its turn again.

That means, turn-based lock will cause deadlock when one thread terminates.



