title: Use python generator to solve yin-yang puzzle
tags:
  - python
  - functional programming
date: 2018-08-30 10:50:00
---

An interesting solution of yin-yang puzzle, and create the universe (笑）

<!-- more -->

```python
def yin(cb1):
	yield '@'
	def yang(cb2):
		yield '*'
		yield from cb1(cb2)
	yield from yang(yang)
	
def puzzle():
	yield from yin(yin)
	
for x, _ in zip(puzzle(), range(50)):
	print(x, end='')
```

```
@*@**@***@****@*****@******@*******@********@*****
```
Each time the prgram will output an extra `*` symbol, therefore our universe is created.

This puzzle is a famous one in functional programming area (probably?). Notably solved by utilizing `call/cc` ([continuation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Call-with-current-continuation)).

As we all know, python's `generator` is no more than a simplified version of continuation. And that's where the solution comes from.

An interesting question here is why there's an increment on `*` symbol.

The key to understanding this is noticing the **context** carried with each generator. To make everything clear, we use notation like `yin_yang~yin`. The name befoere `_` indicates the generator name we are currently calling, the sequence after `_` indicates the value of `cb1` in the nested context, from the nearest to the furthest.

Here we only need to care about `cb1` (callback 1), since it is the place where magic happens. For `cb2`, since we only call `yang(yang)`, it just duplicates itself every time.

Then we can interpret the process in the following way:

```
yin(yin) \\ @
-> yang_yin(yang_yin) \\ *
-> yin(yang_yin) \\ @
-> yang_yang~yin(yang_yang~yin) \\ *
-> yang_yin(yang_yang~yin) \\ *
-> yin(yang_yang~yin) \\ @
-> yang_yang~yang~yin(yang_yang~yang~yin)
...
```

We can see how the context grows. The key here is, even though we are always passing `yang` to `cb1`, the context carried with each `yang` is different.

If this explaination is not clear enough for you, a comprehensive scheme version explaination is available [here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/2694679/how-does-the-yin-yang-puzzle-work).


